modules/module_14/notes.md, before:

# Module 14 - Technological Aspect of Writing

# General Notes

- Technology is more than just computers, cell phones, and smart houses.
  - Things from 50+ years ago are still considered technology.
- The technological aspect of writing goes beyond _computer literacies_.
- This aspect anchors to the way writers **intentionally encode information often beyond language**, and readers decode information from a _"text"_ beyond the words themselves.
- Indirectly links to multiple subfields of writing:
  - Professional communication
  - Professional writing
  - Technical communication
  - Technical writing

# Key Components

## Process / Production

- The process of textual production
    - Physical
    - Digital
    - Cognitive
- What is the difference between a _tool_ and _technology_?
  - **Tool**
    - A device or implement, especially one held in the hand, used to carry out
      a particular function.
      - This means at hand used to accomplish a task.
  - **Technologies**
    - The result of using a scientific inquiry or industrial processes, invention, and methods to develop a specific tool for a specific purpose.

## Cognitive

- **Memory**
  - The Brain as the first writing technology
- **Encoding / Decoding beyond the language**
- **Readability vs Literacy**
  - Traditional linguistic **Literacy:** how the brain decodes **words**.
  - Technological **Readability:** how goes beyond language this has to do with cognitive uptake.
  - The reader's brain's ability to upload information as a result of non-linguistic cues.
  - Document Design & Visual Design

## Usability

- **Usability**: How well can a user intuit the functions of a particular technology?
  - While these principles are more often discussed in computer programming and web design, the principles can be applicable to any type of writing technology.
- **System-Based Design** - Burden is on User/Reader to figure it out
- **User-Based Design** - Burden is on the Designer/Writer to make it usable
  - At its extreme, this model provides an ongoing feedback look to improve the technology or system
- **User Interface (UI)**
  - <https://www.usability.gov/what-and-why/user-interface-design.html>
- **User Experience (UX)**

## Accessibility

- <https://www.w3.org/standards/webdesign/accessibility>
- Something is most **accessible** if it is _"easy to approach, reach, enter, speak with, or **use**"_
- **At least three different types beyond linguistic accessibility**
  - _Physical ability_
    - To use the system for encoding/decoding information.
  - _Technical skills_
    - To use the system for encoding/decoding information.
  - _Socio-cultural_
    - Access _(economic access, educational access, etc.)_
- <http://compositionforum.com/issue/39>
  - _Special issue on Accessibility/Disability/Accommodation)_

Commit message:

Update technological aspect of writing

modules/module_14/notes.md, after:

# Module 14 - Technological Aspect of Writing

# General Notes

- Technology is more than just computers, cell phones, and smart houses.
  - Things from 50+ years ago are still considered technology.
- The technological aspect of writing goes beyond _computer literacies_.
- This aspect anchors to the way writers **intentionally encode information often beyond language**, and readers decode information from a _"text"_ beyond the words themselves.
- Indirectly links to multiple subfields of writing:
  - Professional communication
  - Professional writing
  - Technical communication
  - Technical writing
- **PDF Resource:** [Practice With Images](assets/practice_with_images.pdf)
- **Video Resource:** [The Technology of Writing: From Stone Tablets to Tablet Devices](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OtElbFVhHBo)

# Key Components

[# Lecture on Readability and Accessibility: Technological Aspect of Writing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1WVusVCBO24)

## Process / Production

- The process of textual production
    - Physical
    - Digital
    - Cognitive
- What is the difference between a _tool_ and _technology_?
  - **Tool**
    - A device or implement, especially one held in the hand, used to carry out
      a particular function.
      - This means at hand used to accomplish a task.
  - **Technologies**
    - The result of using a scientific inquiry or industrial processes, invention, and methods to develop a specific tool for a specific purpose.

## Cognitive

- **Memory**
  - The Brain as the first writing technology
- **Encoding / Decoding beyond the language**
- **Readability vs Literacy**
  - Traditional linguistic **Literacy:** how the brain decodes **words**.
  - Technological **Readability:** how goes beyond language this has to do with cognitive uptake.
    - How fast our brains can take in the information
  - The reader's brain's ability to upload information as a result of non-linguistic cues.
  - Document Design & Visual Design

### Poor Readability Example

![](assets/readability.png)

### Good Readability Example

![](assets/readability_002.png)

## Usability

- **Usability**: How well can a user intuit the functions of a particular technology?
  - While these principles are more often discussed in computer programming and web design, the principles can be applicable to any type of writing technology.
- **System-Based Design** - Burden is on User/Reader to figure it out
- **User-Based Design** - Burden is on the Designer/Writer to make it usable
  - At its extreme, this model provides an ongoing feedback look to improve the technology or system
- **User Interface (UI)**
  - <https://www.usability.gov/what-and-why/user-interface-design.html>
- **User Experience (UX)**

## Accessibility

- <https://www.w3.org/standards/webdesign/accessibility>
- Something is most **accessible** if it is _"easy to approach, reach, enter, speak with, or **use**"_
- **At least three different types beyond linguistic accessibility**
  - _Physical ability_
    - To use the system for encoding/decoding information.
  - _Technical skills_
    - To use the system for encoding/decoding information.
  - _Socio-cultural_
    - Access _(economic access, educational access, etc.)_
- <http://compositionforum.com/issue/39>
  - _Special issue on Accessibility/Disability/Accommodation)_
